[Music]
have you ever had the feeling that
someone was watching you you know that
little bit of uneasiness in the back of
your mind the slight tingle that forces
you to turn your head just to make sure
well if you spend time on the Internet
that's almost certainly true search
engines like Google Bing and Yahoo make
most of their money selling advertising
space but advertisers don't like paying
for ads that don't reach their customer
base you would expect to find a mascara
ad in an issue of men's health after all
so to solve this problem search engines
like to track their users that way they
know just the right time to jump out of
the bushes with a net oops I mean jump
out of the search results with a
sponsored link as far as I know Google's
never kidnapped anyone to sell them
shampoo but it's understandable that
some people don't like the idea of being
tracked for this reason most browsers
now feature an incognito mode to let you
search without surveillance here are
seven lesser-known reasons you might
consider browsing incognito number one
borrowing a computer let's say that one
day you're out buying groceries the
usual stuff bread eggs milk trim tartare
just the regular weekday right you
gather everything up and take it to the
register but for some reason your card
keeps getting declined clearly something
is wrong this is usually where you check
your banking app to see what's up but it
just so happens that your phone is dead
just one of those days am i right
fortunately you see your friend Jeff has
just checked out a few aisles down and
you ask to borrow his now you like Jeff
but you don't exactly know him all that
well you're more like work acquaintances
than best buds so before going to your
bank's website you switch his browser
into incognito mode this way it won't
save your password or anything else you
type in such as an email address or date
of birth
this is the safe thing to do anytime
you're on a device other than your own
whether you're sending an email checking
your balance or just logging into
Facebook you don't want strangers
messing with your stuff number two
something that looks bad out of context
so tell me are there any creative types
listening let me hit you with a
hypothetical say you're working on your
epic spy thriller when you're dashing
hero takes a drink from the wrong glass
now you need to figure out how much time
James reach Bauer hmm
has to get to the hospital without
looking like you're trying to poison
your roommate typing something like how
long for cyanide to start working is
gonna look kind of suspicious if anyone
happens to go through your search
history you might not be plotting
anything nefarious but good luck telling
the police it was for a book while all
this writing about espionage might just
be making you paranoid you still don't
want that suspicious search hanging
around in your browser history by
turning on private browsing you can at
the very least save yourself some
awkward conversations if anyone happens
to get a look at your search suggestions
so if you're hoping to be the next Ian
Fleming Stephen King or george RR martin
you might want to make sure you're
searching where no one can see it number
three you're searching for something
embarrassing not everything you want to
keep secret is gonna get you in trouble
maybe you have a rash I want to know if
it's something to see a doctor about
well you're glad to know it can be
healed with some topical cream you don't
want to have the words scaly bum rash
popping up in your search suggestions
fortunately you had the forethought to
browse in incognito mode and you can
move on with your life free from
reminders of your itchy episode private
browsing also comes in handy if you find
yourself googling the answer to the
question you feel a little bad about not
knowing who's on the $100 bill which the
Queen's name is there an apostrophe in
don't how do you even spell apostrophe
these aren't necessarily Dunkwa
since but that doesn't mean you want
daily reminders of your previous lack of
knowledge by the way what's the most
embarrassing thing you've ever had to
search let me know down in the comments
number for controlling video suggestions
have you ever spent enough time on the
internet that you found yourself in that
weird part of YouTube it started
innocently enough with cute animals and
those weird ASMR videos where someone
brushes their hair while whispering into
the camera one thing led to another and
now you're worrying if you should be
calling the police the worst part is
that weird videos keep showing up in the
suggestion box even if that hasn't
happened to you there's plenty of
reasons someone might end up watching a
video well outside of their preferences
to keep weird or just unwanted videos
from cluttering up your feet you might
consider browsing incognito you won't
have easy access to things like your
YouTube subscriptions but it will keep
one-off watches from haunting your
homepage number five using multiple
accounts it's quite common for people to
have one account for personal messages
and another for work emails if you're a
college student you might also get one
through your university that's not even
counting all the other reasons someone
might need multiple email addresses
signing in and out of multiple accounts
can be a real hassle and if you're
answering that many emails you're
clearly a busy person to save some time
try opening each account in a different
private browsing window instead of
having to go through each account one by
one this trick allows you to check and
respond to all your messages at once
number 6 you want to look like a fresh
user as I mentioned earlier search
engines keep track of what pages you
look at so they know what targeted ads
to send your way they also try to match
your current results to pages you've
looked at in the past but say you don't
want to look at the same site you always
do say you want to see what you'd find
if the algorithm weren't trying to cater
to your tastes this is another area
where incognito
can come in handy you see it doesn't
just prevent your browser from saving
logins in history it also disguises your
computer hiding it from programs meant
to track your usage turns out is called
incognito for a reason believe it or not
this trick can actually help you save a
bit of money on hotels and airfare you
see some booking sites keep track of
who's looking at what destinations this
allows them to adjust pricing
accordingly potentially charging more
for trips your seemingly sure to make
while browsing an incognito isn't
guaranteed to save you any money it's a
useful trick if you want to make sure
you're getting the best deal available
number seven gift shopping not that I
can speak for everyone but most people
like getting free stuff I know I do in
fact the only thing better than free
stuff is free stuff in a brightly
colored box well with that in mind you
might decide to surprise your
significant other with a free stuff box
of their very own you spend weeks
thinking about the perfect free stuff to
put in the box
and finally settle on something you just
know the love you place your order and
wait expectedly for the package to
arrive you've planned this whole
elaborate evening that ends with the
revealing of the free stuff box and
can't wait to see the look on their face
as they unwrap it then tragedy strikes
not two days before it arrives they come
up to you and say I saw you were
googling tandem bicycles suddenly the
surprise is ruined and they know
precisely worth they're getting on the
next free stuff receiving day man I
really need to come up with a snappier
name for that
well they'll still appreciate the
gesture it's just not as much fun if
they know what they're getting the good
news is that this tragedy can be avoided
if you use private browsing while
shopping for something to put in the
free stuff box now if you'll excuse me
I'm going to turn on incognito mode
while I look up shorter words for free
stuff box hmm
hey if you learned something new today
then give the video a like and share it
with a friend just like a gift and here
are some other videos I think you'll
enjoy just click to the left or right
and remember stay on the bright side of
life
[Music]